# Creating a Virtual Machine on Google Compute Engine

In order to create a VM on Google Compute Engine one must have a
Google Account. You can sign up for one
[here](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp?hl=en).

Next, you will need to [sign up for Google Cloud
Platform](https://console.cloud.google.com/freetrial?authuser=1&page=0). As
of this writing, Google is offering a free trial that includes $300
worth of credits that expire one year from signup, but you will need
to provide billing information (either a credit card or bank details)
to sign up.

When you sign up, Google will create a project for you called *My
First Project* with an autogenerated project ID. The page after the
weclome screen contains links to a number of easy to follow tutorials
and *Quick Starts* that will guide you through the steps required to
start various Google Cloud Platform services in the console.

## Automated Creation of a VM on Ubuntu 16.04

The following instructions are adapted from
[here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart-debian-ubuntu?authuser=1).

You will need to have `curl` installed. You can install it with:
```bash
sudo apt install curl
```


First you need to install the gcloud SDK: ```bash export
CLOUD_SDK_REPO="cloud-sdk-$(lsb_release -c -s)" echo "deb
http://packages.cloud.google.com/apt $CLOUD_SDK_REPO main" | sudo tee
-a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/google-cloud-sdk.list curl
https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key
add - sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install google-cloud-sdk ```
Next, initialize the SDK with: ```bash gcloud init ``` This will open
a web browser and prompt you to log in to your account. If you don't
have a browser installed or are doing a headless setup, you can use
the following command instead: ```bash gcloud init --console-only ```
This will display a link in your terminal that you must copy and paste
into a browser. The browser will return a verification code for you to
type into the terminal.

After you have logged in, the terminal will prompt you to select a
project or create a new one. Project IDs must be unique. If you pick
one like `test-vm` it will fail. If you start again with: ```bash
gcloud init ``` You will be prompted to pick up where you left off or
create a new configuration.

After selecting a project, you will be asked if you want to configure
a default Compute Region and Zone. If you do not, configuration is
complete.

# Create an Instance

You can create an instance with the following command (where <name of
instance> is the name of the instance you want to create): ```bash
gcloud compute instances create <name of instance> ```

If you have not set up a default Compute Region and Zone, you will be
prompted to select one from the 45 possibly zones, so it is probably
better to either set a default or decide which zone you want the
instance in before you type the command. For example, if you want to
create an instance called *foo* in *us-central1-a* (which is in Iowa),
you would enter:

```bash gcloud compute instances create foo --zone=us-central-1a ```
This will create an n1-standard-1 instance with one CPU and 3.75 GB of
memory, which costs about $25 a month. If you leave it running, you
will burn through a lot of your free credits for nothing. You can stop
it with:

```bash gcloud compute instances stop foo --zone=us-central-1a ```

A full list of all the options for the `gcloud compute instances`
command is
[here](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/compute/instances/).

